The President:
Hi, everybody.
This week, I spent some time
traveling across Iowa talking
with folks about rebuilding an
economy where if you work hard,
you and your family
can get ahead.
And along the way, I stopped in
at Cascade High School to thank
the teachers there for
doing such a great job --
and wish them luck as they
head back to the classroom for
this school year.
There's nothing more important
to our country's future than the
education we give our kids.
And there's no one more
important to that education than
the person at the
front of the classroom.
Teachers matter.
Most work tirelessly,
with modest pay,
sometimes digging into their own
pocket for school supplies --
just to make a difference.
They give everything
for our kids --
and in return, we
should invest in them.
But here's the thing: this year,
several thousand fewer educators
will be going back to school.
Since 2009, we've lost more than
300,000 education jobs, in part,
because of budget cuts at
the state and local level.
Think about what that
means for our country.
At a time when the rest of the
world is racing to out-educate
America, these cuts force our
kids into crowded classrooms,
cancel programs for preschoolers
and kindergartners,
and shorten the school
week and the school year.
That's the opposite of what we
should be doing as a country.
States should be making
education a priority in their
budgets, even in
tough fiscal times.
And Congress should be
willing to help out --
because this affects all of us.
That's why part of the jobs bill
that I sent to Congress last
September included support
for states to prevent further
layoffs and to rehire teachers
who'd lost their jobs.
But here we are -- a year later
with tens of thousands more
educators laid off -- and
Congress still hasn't done
anything about it.
In fact, the economic plan
that almost every Republican in
Congress voted for would make
the situation even worse.
It would actually cut
funding for education --
which means fewer
kids in Head Start,
fewer teachers in
our classrooms,
and fewer college students
with access to financial aid --
all to pay for a massive
new tax cut for millionaires
and billionaires.
That's backwards.
That's wrong.
That plan doesn't invest in our
future; it undercuts our future.
If we want America to
lead in the 21st century,
nothing is more important
than giving everyone the best
education possible -- from the
day they start preschool to the
day they start their career.
That's why we launched a
national competition to
improve our schools.
And for less than 1% of what our
nation spends on education each
year, we've encouraged almost
every state to raise their
standards -- the first time
that's happened in a generation.
That's why we've invested in
math and science education,
and given states more
flexibility on No Child
Left Behind.
And that's why we've reformed
the student loan program to put
students before big banks, and
increased financial aid for
millions of young people --
because in America, higher
education can't be a luxury;
it's an economic necessity every
family should be able to afford.
This is a country where no
matter what you look like or
where you come from, if you're
willing to study and work hard,
you can go as far as your
talents will take you.
You can make it if you try.
I am only the President of the
United States today because of
the chance my education gave me.
And I want every child
in America to have
that same chance.
That's what I'm fighting for.
And as long as I have the
privilege of being your
President, that's what I'm
going to keep fighting for.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.